# 9/20/21

I haven't got the raspberry pi working yet, but it's time to start writing some code.

The current plan is a django app that can run in a few different modes:

* standalone on r-pi.
* Server mode: configure and view data, but don't actually control anything. Runs in docker.
* Client mode: runs on r-pi, similar to to standalone, but connects to server to download a configuration.

Setup dockerfile, docker-compose, and create empty project with django-admin. Looked at https://docs.docker.com/samples/django/

Trying out django-environ for reading managing config https://django-environ.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html but just using it to read from environment variables, i still dont like .env files.

got docker setup to load local code in via a volume, usually i would mount it in a different directory that where it is installed during docker image build, but this time im trying out just having the volume overwrite where the code is installed.

Using SQLite db. Eventually standalone and client modes wil use that, but server will probably use postgres.

`docker-compose run web python3 manage.py migrate`

Setup pre-commit hooks, all the usual ones.

It's so nice starting a new project and being on the latest versions of everything.

Opened first PR, which is just the project skeleton, does not do anything yet. Reviewed it myself and merged.

Next task: setting up the models.

Decided not to use geodjango, and instead just use 3 float fields for location, to save space needed for install.

Got the initial models setup, pushed a PR to create models and setup admin.

Next tasks:

* setup modes in settings
* offer to create user if none exists in standalone mode
* setup django rest framework

back at it in the afternoon
Using an enum in a django setting took a little bit of doing, but i got it setup, and even gives good error messages for invalid values.

Decided to try out using AppConfig for creating default user. At first it didnt work, but that was because i was trying to use an appconfig on the main app, once i moved it to an app that was in installed_apps it worked. Then i started using logging in the app config, and none of it was showing up, so then i had to configure logging.

pushed another PR to add settings.MODE and auto create user and controller if they dont exist.

Next tasks:

* setup django rest framework
* figure out how to run a loop to monitor sensors
